Add Java and Kotlin Getting started (#23)
kuzzleio/sdk-jvm: doc/1/getting-started/java/index.md

type: page
title: Java
description: Java Getting started
order: 99
---

# Getting Started

In this tutorial you will learn how to install the Kuzzle **Jvm SDK**.
This page shows examples of scripts that **store** documents in Kuzzle, and of scripts that subcribe to real-time **notifications** for each new document created.

::: success
Before proceeding, please make sure your system meets the following requirements:

- **Oracle JDK or OpenJDK** version 8 or higher ([OpenJDK installation instructions](https://openjdk.java.net/install/))
- A running Kuzzle Server ([Kuzzle installation guide](/core/2/guides/essentials/installing-kuzzle))

:::

::: info
Having trouble? Get in touch with us on [Discord](http://join.discord.kuzzle.io)!
:::

## Installation

You can find the SDK JARs directly on [bintray](https://bintray.com/kuzzle/maven/kuzzle-sdk-jvm). Download and add it to your classpath.

::: info
The following examples are made to be executed without any IDE.
If you're using Eclipse, IntelliJ or another Java IDE, you need to add the SDK as a project dependency in your classpath.
:::

### Installing on Android using gradle

In your app build.gradle add the following line and sync.

>     implementation "io.kuzzle:kuzzle-sdk-jvm:1.0.0"

Reviewer: This appear white on white background on the documentation https://deploy-preview-23--doc-sdk-jvm.netlify.app/getting-started/java/#installing-on-android-using-gradle

## First connection

> Initialize a new Java project, create a `gettingstartedfirstconnection.java` file and start by adding the code below:

Reviewer: Files in Java should start with a capital and be CamelCase

<<< ./snippets/firstconnection.java

This program initializes the Kuzzle Server storage by creating a index, and a collection inside it
Run the program with the following command:

```bash

> $ javac -classpath ./path/to/the/sdk.jar gettingstartedfirstconnection.java

Reviewer: Files in Java should start with a capital and be CamelCase

$ java -classpath .:./path/to/the/sdk.jar gettingstartedfirstconnection
Connected!
Index nyc-open-data created!
Collection yellow-taxi created!
```

Congratulations, you performed your first connection to Kuzzle Server via a Java program.
You now know how to:

- Instantiate Kuzzle SDK and connect to Kuzzle Server using a specific protocol (here `websocket`)
- Create a index
- Create a collection within an existing index

## Create your first document

Now that you successfully connected to your Kuzzle Server instance, and created an index and a collection, it's time to manipulate some data.

Here is how Kuzzle structures its storage space:

- indexes contain collections
- collections contain documents

>   Create a `gettingstartedstorage.java` file in the playground and add this code:

Reviewer: Files in Java should start with a capital and be CamelCase

<<< ./snippets/document.java

As you did before, build and run your program:

```bash

> $ javac -classpath ./path/to/the/sdk.jar  gettingstartedstorage.java

Reviewer: Files in Java should start with a capital and be CamelCase

$ java -classpath .:./path/to/the/sdk.jar gettingstartedstorage
Connected!
New document added to yellow-taxi collection!
```

You can perform other actions such as [delete](/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document/delete), [replace](/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document/replace) or [search](/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document/search) documents. There are also other ways to interact with Kuzzle like our [Admin Console](/core/2/guides/essentials/admin-console), the [Kuzzle HTTP API](/core/2/api/essentials/connecting-to-kuzzle) or by using your [own protocol](/core/2/protocols/essentials/getting-started).

Now you know how to:

- Store documents in a Kuzzle Server, and access those

## Subscribe to realtime document notifications (pub/sub)

Time to use realtime with Kuzzle. Create a new file `gettingstartedrealtime.java` with the following code:

<<< ./snippets/realtime.java

This program subscribes to changes made to documents with a `license` field set to `B`, within the `yellow-taxi` collection. Whenever a document matching the provided filters changes, a new notification is received from Kuzzle.

Build and run your program:

```bash

> $ javac -classpath ./path/to/the/sdk.jar gettingstartedrealtime.java

Reviewer: Files in Java should start with a capital and be CamelCase

---
code: false
type: page
title: Java
description: Java Getting started
order: 99
---

# Getting Started

> In this tutorial you will learn how to install the Kuzzle **Jvm SDK**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will learn how to install and use the **JVM SDK** for Kuzzle.
```

This page shows examples of scripts that **store** documents in Kuzzle, and of scripts that subcribe to real-time **notifications** for each new document created.

::: success
Before proceeding, please make sure your system meets the following requirements:

- **Oracle JDK or OpenJDK** version 8 or higher ([OpenJDK installation instructions](https://openjdk.java.net/install/))
- A running Kuzzle Server ([Kuzzle installation guide](/core/2/guides/essentials/installing-kuzzle))

:::

::: info
Having trouble? Get in touch with us on [Discord](http://join.discord.kuzzle.io)!
:::

## Installation

> You can find the SDK JARs directly on [bintray](https://bintray.com/kuzzle/maven/sdk-jvm). Download and add it to your classpath.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find the SDK JARs directly on [bintray](https://bintray.com/kuzzle/maven/sdk-jvm). Download and add them to your classpath.
```

::: info
The following examples are made to be executed without any IDE.
If you're using Eclipse, IntelliJ or another Java IDE, you need to add the SDK as a project dependency in your classpath.
:::

> ### Installing on Android using gradle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Installing for Android projects using gradle
```

Reviewer 2: why android though?

> In your app build.gradle add the following line and sync.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your app build.gradle add the following lines and synchronize your project:
```

> ### Maven:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Maven
```

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.kuzzle</groupId>
  <artifactId>sdk-jvm</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
```

> ### Gradle:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Gradle
```

```groovy
implementation 'io.kuzzle:sdk-jvm:1.0.0'
```

> ### Ivy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Ivy
```

```html
<dependency org='io.kuzzle' name='sdk-jvm' rev='1.0.0'>
  <artifact name='sdk-jvm' ext='pom' ></artifact>
</dependency>
```

## First connection

Initialize a new Java project, create a `GettingStartedFirstConnection.java` file and start by adding the code below:

<<< ./snippets/firstconnection.java

> This program initializes the Kuzzle Server storage by creating a index, and a collection inside it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This program initializes the Kuzzle Server storage by creating an index and a collection.
```

Run the program with the following command:

```bash
$ javac -classpath ./path/to/the/sdk.jar GettingStartedFirstConnection.java
$ java -classpath .:./path/to/the/sdk.jar GettingStartedFirstConnection
Connected!
Index nyc-open-data created!
Collection yellow-taxi created!
```

> Congratulations, you performed your first connection to Kuzzle Server via a Java program.

Reviewer 2: (open to debate) Should we really congratulate, especially over something as trifle as this?
I would favor something more formal, but that may be just me.

```suggestion
```

Author: I dont find it disturbing, I feel like I see this kind of thing in a lot of tutorials, but I dont have strong feelings about this.

Author: After thinking I remove it, maybe thats too much

You now know how to:

> - Instantiate Kuzzle SDK and connect to Kuzzle Server using a specific protocol (here `websocket`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Instantiate the Kuzzle SDK and connect to a Kuzzle Server using a specific network protocol (here `websocket`)
```

> - Create a index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create an index
```

- Create a collection within an existing index

## Create your first document

> Now that you successfully connected to your Kuzzle Server instance, and created an index and a collection, it's time to manipulate some data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you successfully connected to your Kuzzle Server instance, and created an index and a collection, it's time to manipulate documents.
```

> Here is how Kuzzle structures its storage space:
> 
> - indexes contain collections
> - collections contain documents

Reviewer 2: This should probably come earlier, before we make the user create an index and a collection. It'd probably be better to also link to a more detailed guide page, such as https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/2/guides/essentials/store-access-data/

That would give something like this (to be moved to the previous chapter):

```suggestion
::: info
If you're not yet familiar with how Kuzzle structures its storage, check our [detailed guide][https://docs.kuzzle.io/core/2/guides/essentials/store-access-data/)
:::
```

>   Create a `GettingStartedStorage.java` file in the playground and add this code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Create a `GettingStartedStorage.java` file in the playground and add this code:
```

<<< ./snippets/document.java

As you did before, build and run your program:

```bash
$ javac -classpath ./path/to/the/sdk.jar  GettingStartedStorage.java
$ java -classpath .:./path/to/the/sdk.jar GettingStartedStorage
Connected!

> New document added to yellow-taxi collection!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New document added to the yellow-taxi collection!
```

```

> You can perform other actions such as [delete](/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document/delete), [replace](/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document/replace) or [search](/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document/search) documents. There are also other ways to interact with Kuzzle like our [Admin Console](/core/2/guides/essentials/admin-console), the [Kuzzle HTTP API](/core/2/api/essentials/connecting-to-kuzzle) or by using your [own protocol](/core/2/protocols/essentials/getting-started).

Reviewer 2: I would split this paragraph in two, as it groups different informations: that other actions are available, and that there other ways of using Kuzzle's API.
I would keep the first part, by pointing to the SDK's document controller, and the other part... well, I would delete it altogether, I don't see how it benefits to this guide.

```suggestion
Many other actions are available to manipulate stored documents. You can check the exhaustive list in the [Document Controller documentation](https://docs.kuzzle.io/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document).
```

Now you know how to:

> - Store documents in a Kuzzle Server, and access those

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Store documents in a Kuzzle Server, and access to those
```

## Subscribe to realtime document notifications (pub/sub)

> Time to use realtime with Kuzzle. Create a new file `GettingStartedRealtime.java` with the following code:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Time to use Kuzzle's realtime capabilities. Create a new file `GettingStartedRealtime.java` with the following code:
```

<<< ./snippets/realtime.java

This program subscribes to changes made to documents with a `license` field set to `B`, within the `yellow-taxi` collection. Whenever a document matching the provided filters changes, a new notification is received from Kuzzle.

Build and run your program:

```bash
$ javac -classpath ./path/to/the/sdk.jar GettingStartedRealtime.java
$ java -classpath .:./path/to/the/sdk.jar GettingStartedRealtime
Connected!
Successfully subscribing!
New document added to yellow-taxi collection!

> New created document notification: [Document content as ConcurrentHashMap]

Reviewer 2: hm... can the snippet serialize the document content and print it so that example gives a view of the actual notification content?

```

> You should see document content as a `ConcurrentHashMap`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should see the document content as a `ConcurrentHashMap`.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't get what this means :thinking: 
Can't we print the exact content in this example?

Now, you know how to:

- Create realtime filters
- Subscribe to notifications

## Where do we go from here?

> Now that you're more familiar with the Jvm SDK, you can dive even deeper to learn how to leverage its full capabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you're more familiar with the JVM SDK, you can dive even deeper to learn how to leverage its full capabilities:
```

- discover what this SDK has to offer by browsing other sections of this documentation
- learn how to use [Koncorde](/core/2/guides/cookbooks/realtime-api) to create incredibly fine-grained and blazing-fast subscriptions
- follow our guide to learn how to perform [basic authentication](/core/2/guides/essentials/user-authentication#local-strategy)

> - follow our guide to learn how to [manage users and how to set up fine-grained access control](/core/2/guides/essentials/security)

Reviewer 2: Those are Kuzzle topics rather than SDK ones

Build and run your program:

```bash
$ javac -classpath ./path/to/the/sdk.jar GettingStartedRealtime.java
$ java -classpath .:./path/to/the/sdk.jar GettingStartedRealtime
Connected!
Successfully subscribing!
New document added to yellow-taxi collection!
New created document notification: 

{
  _source={
    birthday=1995-11-27,
    license=B,
    name=John,
    _kuzzle_info={
      createdAt=1605694059151,author=-1
      }
    },
    _id=9PDS2nUBeGNr7nwl8j2Q,
    _version=1
  }

```

You should see the document content as a `ConcurrentHashMap`.

Now, you know how to:

- Create realtime filters
- Subscribe to notifications

## Where do we go from here?

Now that you're more familiar with the JVM SDK, you can dive even deeper to learn how to leverage its full capabilities:

- discover what this SDK has to offer by browsing other sections of this documentation
- learn how to use [pagination strategies](/sdk/jvm/1/core-classes/search-result/next/#pagination-strategies) with the [document:search](/sdk/jvm/1/controllers/document/search/) API action.

> - discover others [Kuzzle guides](core/2/guides/essentials/introduction/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- discover other [Kuzzle guides](core/2/guides/essentials/introduction/)
```
